Please go to your station.
If you're not sure
where your station is,
please look at
the pocket charts.
One robot and iPad
per partnership.
So, let's see,
can we form a circle, friends?
My students really wanted
to work collaboratively
because the culture
that we have in our class
is also one that--where
we promote collaboration.
It's one way to have
that sense of support
that students can provide
to each other best
and pair programming
has been very successful
because it allows kids to
really grow their vocabulary,
to be able to learn
how to debug,
and it really allows them
to work through a task
more carefully.
It always helps
when you have a buddy
to ask you to consider why
you're taking certain steps.
So, friends, can you please
have a discussion with June
to make sure that you are
all on the same page?
And I love it, you started
your reflection sheet.
♪
So, friends, I'm gonna connect
to one of the robots.
I was learning how to,
like, code Dash and Dot
and go on the iPad
and program him
to, like, move.
I think Dash
is my favorite station
'cause it's
the most interactive.
We get to make--
use blocks of code
and code him to move around.
So today, we had stations
highlighting pair programming.
We had two stations where
they were exploring robotics.
In one station,
they were programming Dash
using a mat where
they were rolling a die
and selecting
different blocks of code
to be able to perform
certain functions.
The first station I was at
was Code.org
and the second station was, um,
programming Colby the mouse.
The other station
with the robotic mouse,
they were exploring
what the maze would be like
and also determining, like,
what the robot is capable of,
so it's more tangible
and I wanted them to see
a different aspect
of what coding can look like.
(robot mouse chittering)
All of these lessons, really,
are just allowing kids
to be critical thinkers
and to use their higher order
thinking skills
and apply it
to some of the work
that they're doing.
When you use pair programming,
you have two roles
that are essential.
The first role
is the driver's role
and the second role
is the navigator's role.
The driver will be the student
who is operating the device
while the navigator is there
to provide directions
and to basically help
the driver
navigate through the task.
And as the navigator
you can't touch the computer.
You can't be a bossy navigator.
I like to work with partners
because I feel that
it's a little funner
because maybe if
you don't know the code
to the puzzle,
maybe, like, your f--
your partner can--knows,
and then--and then, like,
you could solve it together.
I think that it's important
to work with my friends
during computer science
because if I get
stuck on something,
I could ask them for some help.
They learn how to be able
to take turns.
They grow a lot
regarding their social skills.
Okay, please switch.
When you're teaching
computer science,
it's not just about being able
to come up with an algorithm.
It's also being able
to collaborate
to come up with
different possibilities
to solve a task.
We do pair programming
throughout the day
with every lesson
because we have students
who connect on different tasks,
and it allows for
greater discussion
of what the problem is.
This is the world's
hardest game.
So, we foster that environment
in our school
starting from
the very first day of school.
So, we spend the first
six weeks of school
building community, and that's
really important work.
And everything we do
after that
stands on the shoulders
of that work.
Computer science
is a great vehicle
for collaboration
because you are working
to solve problems,
and problem-solving,
having multiple perspectives,
really brings a lot
to the table.
I was amazed.
She had approximately
25 young children
who were a community,
and they all had
their functions
and they all work
collaboratively
and efficiently.
What's the protocol? Show me.
I love how she used
the visual signals
a lot of times in place
of verbal instruction
for the kids.
In class today,
I saw students working
collaboratively together
in groups.
She had students doing
Code.org on the laptops.
She had mouse robot
on the tables.
On the carpet, she had the
Dash robots being programmed.
And then she had students
doing unplugged activities
on the tables.
So, in that amount of space,
to have all those things going
at one time was amazing.
We need another
help desk attendant.
Some of the students
were help desk technicians
and so they were
really responsible
for helping the other students.
This is for the help desk
in case someone needs help.
So, like, if they need help,
they can--they can get me
and then I can help them out.
Constructive feedback
cannot exist
unless you have an environment
where people care
about each other
and where they're invested
to be able to feel that
what we're doing
with the feedback
is promoting growth.
A lot of the work we're doing
in computer science
is about teamwork
and collaboration,
and children at all ages
need to learn how to do that,
and it happens through
modeling and experiences
and practice.
As you learn more
about each other,
you get to care more
about each other.
So, being able to really
establish that is essential.
I love computer science a lot.
♪